RHIDP-6735 - Added high-level overview of auth and user provisioning (#1186)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/authentication/con-understanding-authentication-and-user-provisioning.adoc

Configuring authentication and user provisioning is critical for several reasons.

* It secures your Developer Hub instance by ensuring only authenticated users can gain access.
* It enables authorization by allowing you to define access controls based on user and group memberships synchronized from your IdP.
* Provisioning user and group data to the catalog is necessary for various catalog features that rely on understanding entity ownership and relationships between users, groups, and software components.
Without this provisioning step, features like displaying who owns a component in the catalog may not function correctly.

[TIP]
.Not recommended for production
====
To explore {product-short} features, you can:

* To use {product-short} without external IdP, xref:authenticating-with-the-guest-user_{context}[enable the guest user] to skip configuring authentication and authorization, log in as the guest user, and access all {product-short} features.

> * To use {product-short} without authorization policies, you can bypass the {product-short} software catalog and start using {product-short} without provisioning the {product-short} software catalog by enabling `dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog` resolver option.

Author: ```suggestion
* To use {product-short} without authorization policies and without any feature relying on the software catalog, you can bypass the {product-short} software catalog and start using {product-short} without provisioning the {product-short} software catalog by enabling `dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog` resolver option.
```

> * To use {product-short} without authorization policies and without any feature relying on the software catalog, you can bypass the {product-short} software catalog and start using {product-short} without provisioning the {product-short} software catalog by enabling `dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog` resolver option.

Reviewer: Just a suggestion for more clarity: 
```suggestion
* To use {product-short} without authorization policies and features relying on the software catalog, you can enable the `dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog` resolver option. This setting bypasses the check requiring a user to be in the catalog but still enforces authentication..
```

= Understanding authentication and user provisioning

This module provides an overview of how authentication and user provisioning function within {product}.

> Learn about the process from user sign-in to the creation of user and group entities in the software catalog, and understand the roles played by the different authentication and catalog plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn about the process from creating user and group entities in the software catalog to user sign-in, and how authentication and catalog plugins enable each step.
```

Understanding this process is essential for successfully link:{configuring-book-url}[configuring your {product-short} instance], link:{authorization-book-url}[securing access through authorization], and enabling features that rely on synchronized user and group data.

When a user attempts to access {product-short}, {product-short} redirects them to a configured authentication provider, such as xref:assembly-authenticating-with-rhbk[{rhbk-brand-name} ({rhbk})], xref:authenticating-with-github[GitHub], or xref:assembly-authenticating-with-microsoft-azure[{azure-brand-name}].
This external Identity Provider (IdP) is responsible for authenticating the user.

On successful authentication, the {product-short}'s authentication plugin, configured in your `{my-app-config-file}` file, processes the response from the IdP, resolves the identity in the {product-short} software catalog, and establishes a user session within {product-short}.

> User and group data needs to be provisioned from the Identity Provider to the {product-short} software catalog to fully enable catalog features.

Reviewer: I wonder if we are writing this in the order of user experience flow or set up flow for the platform engineer? If the latter, it might make sense to mention user provisioning first since it is a prerequisite to auth.

Author: *This* is exactly the kind of super useful input I always dream about.

This is handled asynchronously by catalog provider plugins, also configured in your `{my-app-config-file}` file.
These plugins, query the IdP for relevant user and group information and create or update corresponding entities in the {product-short} catalog.
Scheduled provisioning ensures that the catalog accurately reflects the users and groups in your organization.

> Configuring authentication and user provisioning is critical for several reasons.

Reviewer: I think if we're using point form here, we can skip the transition words? (i.e. "first", "second")

> * First, it secures your Developer Hub instance by ensuring only authenticated users can gain access.

Reviewer: I think we can expand on this point a bit. It would be helpful to clarify here that the user entity in the catalog is important because we need that entity (ingested from a trusted IdP/source) for the user logging in to resolve/map to.

Author: Isn't it the last bullet point already?

Author: ```suggestion
* It secures your Developer Hub instance by ensuring only authenticated users can gain access.
```

* It enables authorization by allowing you to define access controls based on user and group memberships synchronized from your IdP.
* Provisioning user and group data to the catalog is necessary for various catalog features that rely on understanding entity ownership and relationships between users, groups, and software components.
Without this provisioning step, features like displaying who owns a component in the catalog may not function correctly.

[TIP]
.Not recommended for production
====
To explore {product-short} features, you can:

* To use {product-short} without external IdP, xref:authenticating-with-the-guest-user_{context}[enable the guest user] to skip configuring authentication and authorization, log in as the guest user, and access all {product-short} features.

> * To use {product-short} without authorization policies, you can bypass the {product-short} software catalog and start using {product-short} without provisioning the {product-short} software catalog by enabling `dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog` option to the resolver.

Author: ```suggestion
* To use {product-short} without authorization policies, you can bypass the {product-short} software catalog and start using {product-short} without provisioning the {product-short} software catalog by enabling `dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog` resolver option.
```

> * To use {product-short} without authorization policies, you can bypass the {product-short} software catalog and start using {product-short} without provisioning the {product-short} software catalog.

Reviewer 2: Should we call it bypass user provisioning instead? 

```
dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: true

    Configure the sign-in resolver to bypass the user provisioning requirement in the Developer Hub software catalog. 
```
